well the funeral for hamas's political
leader isma hania has just begun in
Iran's Capital Teran the supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali H will lead prayers for
the assassinated Hamas leader at the
University of Teran ania's body would
then be transferred to katar's Capital
Doha on Thursday afternoon ahead of his
burial on Friday well Al jaer
correspondent Rael SAR joins us live now
in the studio Rael so the services have
already started for is hania in the
Iranian Capital talk us through what we
can expect today in tran yeah the
services just for the prayer services
now are taking place in the University
of tan uh which is a symbolic place
whenever a high level killing or
assassination happens or any dignitary
that passes away in Iran uh the the the
the funeral the the first uh part of the
funeral will be taken in the University
of tan the most recent one was the the
the the Iranian Le president Ibrahim REI
after he died in a helicopter crash in
May and now uh when that happens in the
University of tan usually the Iranian
supreme leader alian lead the prayer and
before the prayer he will he's expected
to deliver quite a brief speech as well
that's going to be quite remarkable and
we're going to watch and listen what he
says and later uh hania's Budd today is
going to be taken to the aadi square the
freom Freedom Square which is another
iconic place in tan usually hosting the
mass Gatherings and we expecting
thousands of people to attend that
parade so his coffin will be uh will be
shown to people and there's going to be
a long parade so people are going to
come and pay their respects we we most
likely are going to see here chantings
and also the calls for a Revenge because
many of Iranians are feeling that their
sovereignty their dignity has been
violated Gravely yeah and and we saw
yesterday racial uh government
protesters come out on the streets uh of
Teran condemning the attack and the
Assassin of is what's the public mood
inan since the attack so it when we talk
about the public mood inan or across the
whole country it is quite divided it's a
difficult position for many of Iranians
on one hand they have seen constant
assassinations or assassination attempts
many of the the the Iranian important
figures have been killed assassinated
particularly by Israel most notably
their nuclear scientists uh and one of
them the biggest brain behind the Iran
nuclear program F so each time that
happens you will see that Iranians are
asking their government to do more to
stop such attacks and they believe that
the the the the government on IR of Iran
should respond quite strongly that
Israel will not think to do that again
however on the other hand there are
grave concerns as well from the public
they know that in case of a a
retaliation uh a massive retaliation it
could easily lead to a regional war and
a regional war with Israel for many
Iranians means a direct confrontation
with USA a direct confrontation with USA
means Al almost like a detrimental case
a deadly case for majority of Iranians
so you will see that there are secur in
between the dignity their dignity
keeping their dignity on the other hand
keeping themselves safe so they're
worried as well absolutely and just a
final thought to your raceel you've been
telling us this morning that the body of
is Hanah will then be flown here to Doha
for burial what more can you tell us
about those funeral arrangements uh for
tomorrow so today afternoon the hanah's
body is going to be flown to Doha and
tomorrow after the Juma prayer we're
expecting uh his body to be buried in in
in DHA so we'll see uh dozens and dozens
of dignitaries coming to Doha attending
his funeral and prayer uh the head of
state statements VIP guest head of the
governments and also several
representatives of the of the uh the the
the the civil uh organization NGS across
the world so we're expecting it to be
quite a massive massive Gathering and a
show in of solidarity with Hamas with
the Palestinians but particularly with
isma hania because he has been almost
the face of the resistance the
Palestinian resistance his decades let
me just squeeze in one more question
before you go uh Rael we we we heard
earlier on there from the speaker of
parliament Muhammad Baga galiba um
making that clear statement uh that Iran
will enact Revenge uh they you know
there will be a response what did you
make of that well in April when Israel
attack the Iranian em Embassy in
Damascus and then we have seen that
Iranians say that well we change the
rule of the engagement so far normally
until that time up to that time the rule
of Engagement between Israel and Iran
was that in case of an Israeli attack
Iranians will respond to their proxy let
let me just let me just let me just
interrupt you there for a second Rael
sorry for that uh let's just go back now
to the live pictures because we want to
hear from who's hamas's Deputy in G
let's just listen into what he's
saying was to unify this nation and to
support this nation and to unify the
nation and to resist for the sake of
liberating of Palestine his blood today
confirms this the nation today is
carrying his coffin and the nation today
is raising the flag of jihad and
resistance towards the goal of
liberating Palestine and Jerusalem
m
all right so you're watching live
pictures there from the Iranian Capital
Teran uh of the funeral service which is
underway now for the slain Hamas
political leader isma Han let's bring in
faad isari he's a professor of
international relations at Teran
University joins us live from the
Iranian Capital um f
the killing of is hania yesterday
happened just over 24 hours ago um
what's the mood in the capital now with
the start of his funeral arrangements
that we're watching here on our screens
what what's what's going through
people's
minds you can seeing your pictures it's
a very sad day in tan we have had people
traveling from other cities to attend
the funeral we have hundreds and
thousands of people attending the
funeral
um the government has uh announced 3
days of national morning this 3 days of
national morning is generally reserved
for Iranian high ranking government
officials uh and uh so the government is
respecting uh the guest that was
assassinated by the
Israelis as as a high ranking Iranian
government official basically giving him
the same
level of respect the same level of uh uh
sort of prestige that uh that the
highest that that they can offer um you
know Iranians um for listen sorry sorry
to interrupt you but please stay with us
we're just going to go back to those
live pictures we're seeing on our
screens now of the funeral service
because Hal ala the Hamas Deputy in Gaza
was speaking let's listen again to what
he's saying the Faith of Our
on the Palestinian Soul we are sure that
the assassination of isma hania the
Zionist entity will bring anger to this
entity from the entire free people of
the world
[Music]
all right so if you're just joining us
here in Al jaer you're watching live
pictures of the funeral service underway
in the Iranian Capital Tera and those
are the pictures now on your screen we
have uh guests in tran we also have
alzer's racial SAR uh here in the studio
to talk us through what we're seeing um
R let me come back to you quickly before
I go back to Fadi um in Teran Rael so we
heard we we we're hearing there now from
KH ala the Hamas Deputy in Gaza what's
he been saying well he simply saying
that this the blood of the the former
Chief the the former political bureau
chief of Hamas has not been shared in in
in Wayne and there that is going to even
contribute to the cause of the
Palestinians and it's going to further
create an anger among the people the
free people across the globe so far it
is mostly a political rhetoric but we
need to listen more to see if they are
planning any of kind of a concrete uh
steps to be taken against this
assassination and and and despite what
Hamas says and and and this this speech
here at the at the isia funeral is is is
clearly quite emotional and fiery this
is a big blow to the Hamas leadership
isn't it indeed it is because is Han was
one of the figures that is regarded the
most pragmatic and the moderate
representative of the the the
Palestinian resistance so just he has
been quite through his since his young
ages he has been a member a part of this
resistance movement and then in 2006 he
has served as the prime minister of the
unity government in Palestine and he was
the leader of Hamas until up to
2017 then he has been replaced by y in
then he moved to Doha and started to
reside in Doha and since then he has
been the face of the political
engagement with the rest of the world
and also the main negotiator negotiating
on behalf of the Palestinians
particularly with the Israelis and now
that the negotiator political negotiator
is assassinated by Israel so the
concerns is is is that so usually to end
a war you need a political negotiations
and when you kill the negotiator that is
negotiating with you
who are going to thees that are going to
be negoti it just seems you know the
Ceasar is being pushed further and
further away um R for the time being
thank you very much indeed let's just go
back to fa isari he's a professor of
international relations at Teran
University joins us uh from the Iranian
Capital um faad we were as we're
watching on our screens there we're
looking at KH Alaya he's the Hamas
Deputy um in Gaza I mean the killing we
were asking you earlier the killing of
is hania happened just over 24 hours ago
the dust is just starting to settle you
were telling us about the mood in the
capital now with the start of these
funeral services what's going through
people's
minds you know internationally Iranians
are known to uh like guests welcome
guests respect guests so when you have
uh the guests of of the country coming
for the inauguration of the new
president assassinated in this
manner this is quite heavy you know
Iranian col
is famous for uh welcoming guests um and
when you have some very high ranking
official uh assassinated in in the
capital
city this is a shock and that's why you
see this huge crowd that's why you see
the energy in the crowd um this is a
message I think that Iranian people are
sending uh to the world um you know is
Han was respected not just by Arabs or
Muslims he was a freedom fighter he was
someone who led the Palestinian struggle
for many years you see all over the
world people demonstrating in support of
Palestine he was the leader of these
people the people who supported the
Palestinian cause and uh being
assassinated in this manner is obviously
a grave crime and the anger that you see
on your screen is reflecting that that
very fact that people are quite angry
people are quite sad let's just stay
with that uh with that anger that you
just mentioned there we you know we saw
protests on the streets of Teran
yesterday people calling for a decisive
response uh to this attack to the
assassination of hania will there be
growing public pressure to act against
Israel but also worries about a wider
escalation here in the
region you know uh if has no other
choice but to respond and I think you
heard this from the speaker of the
Iranian Parliament you know under Iran's
Constitution we have a National Security
Council 10 people have a
voting uh presence in Iran's National
Security Council one of those 10 people
is the speaker of the Iranian Parliament
so when he talks about um responding to
this terrorist act you can take him
seriously I think you will see Iranian
ballistic missiles The Landing in at
military sites in occupied Palestine
Israeli sides in in in a few days or so
Iran is going to respond and I think the
respond is going to be bigger than what
you saw in April after an Iranian
General was
assassinated at the Iranian Embassy this
is the red line that Drew uh many months
ago that attacking Iranian uh uh
territory is going to have a severe
response and I think you're going to see
that yeah and that's that's a real worry
then isn't it for let me just go back to
what um KH Alaya was saying earlier um
because I think we've just seen the
supreme leader arrive but but just a
quick question to you um Khal haa said
that the resistance all the resistance
movements um are now United um he said
that they will never re um in fact let's
just let's just let's just look in Now
quickly at these live pictures of the
Supreme leader leading the prayers
[Music]
Allah Allah
allahar
Allah
know
muham muhamad Allah
so if you're just joining us here in out
here you're watching live pictures there
of the funeral service for the slain
Hamas political leader is Han these are
pictures coming from the Iranian Capital
where the funeral service has started we
heard from the speaker of parliament
Muhammad gbba a little bit earlier uh
and now we just saw the supreme leader
aah alih H their deliver prayers let's
bring in back Rael SAR Rael just talk us
through uh what we're seeing on our
scens because I think that's the coffin
of hanas there in front of the supreme
leader indeed there are two coffins over
there one of them is is the first one is
is Han's coffin lay down there and the
other one is his God's coffin uh laid
down just in front of the supreme leader
when he was leading the prayer on the
other hand when he was leading the
prayer we have seen them the nely
elected president M pesan uh was on the
Supreme Leader's left side while the
head of the the guardian Council which
is is one of the executive buddies in
Iran that overlooks all state affairs
was on his right side and also khid ha
now is there however as we were were
expecting uh Al to deliver a speech but
he did not do so so it's quite an
interesting picture because many of the
people that now you see there the
executives of the Iran that are running
the state now have just started their
job in the office and particularly for
the N elect President
m pesan is quite interesting because no
one would like to have such a crisis in
in at his table in the first day into
office well I know I was going to ask
you um racel I mean this is the first
big political geopolitical test for
Iran's new president there standing next
to the Supreme Leader um president masud
pesan what pressures then do you think
from the political and religious uh
establishments within the country will
he be under now indeed a lot so here
this is almost like a
in in may we have seen almost kind of
the same picture when the late president
Ibrahim REI died so the same pictures
same digitar is attending his funeral
and now this is happening however it was
an accident according to the Iranian
officials but now there has been high
level political assassination happening
right in tan and many of the Iranians
are regarding this as an also attempt to
undermine Iran's sovereignty so for M
pesan who has been promising to to open
up Iran to the world to develop the ties
with the rest of the world to have a
better relations with the rest of the
world particularly with the West now in
his first day in the office he's facing
a crisis an attack from Israelis killing
a dignity that dignitary that has been
invited to attend his inauguration
ceremony is killed now so on one hand
the Revolutionary guards and the
hardliners in Iran particularly those
who are running the state affairs will
ask for will ask for a retaliation but a
retaliation will probably worse Iran's
ties with the rest of the world and the
newly elected president is going to be
sced in between okay so uh Rael I think
we're now seeing um that the coffin is
going to be moved um after prayers from
the supreme leader to Freedom Square you
were telling us about that earlier so
talk us through what's going to happen
there there's also a routine uh process
that takes place usually in Iran when a
dignitary a VIP or a high level killing
assassination or death happen so now his
his coffin is going to be taken on a on
a truck and then shown to people it's
like a long parade roughly around 5
kilomet uh marching toward the Freedom
Square or uh in Persian the aadi square
and then there will be speech delivered
by uh by by some Representatives
probably we are going to hear again from
the representative of Hamas and some of
the important politicians I'm just
hearing that we won't hear uh from the
supreme leader Ayah Al Harmony uh um at
Freedom Square so again just take us
yeah usually at the Freedom Square the
the supreme leader attend prayer in
teram but he doesn't appear on the
Freedom Square the Freedom Square is
rather a show of solidarity is also like
the you will you will hear the calls
from people for the revenge and so but
that's not a practice that the Supreme
leaders attend such marches imagine that
he's 84 years old and also due to the
security reasons he usually avoided
attending such marches in public places
okay Russell sod thank you very much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer